Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says the country is at War and
will win after a surprise attack by the
Palestinian militant group Hamas saw
thousands of rockets launched into
Israel from Gaza dozens of militants
appear to have entered Southern Israel
there is a state of emergency across the
country let's have a look at what we
know so far these rocket attacks struck
Tel Aviv and areas surrounding Gaza the
town of ashalon seeing several major
explosions uh news channels in Israel
reporting 40 Israelis have been killed
with seven
140 injured details of the Palestinian
incursions are unclear but gunmen have
been reported in towns near the border
with Gaza and Israelis are being told
they need to stay inside there are also
reports of a number of Israeli soldiers
being taken captive by Fighters Hamas
saying it has a big number of captives
and among them Hamas says is senior
officers israeli's military targeting
Gaza very strongly in the past hour or
so at least 198 Palestinians confirmed
dead there well let's uh bring you some
of that statement from prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu who addressed the
nation in a video statement that was
released on social
media citizens of Israel we at War not
an operation not an escalation a war
this morning Hamas launched a murderous
surprise attack against the state of
Israel and its citizens we've been it
since early morning I convin the ads of
the security service
first of all I instructed to cleanse the
settlements of the terrorists who had
infiltrated this operation is being
carried out during these hours at the
same time I ordered an extensive Reserve
mobilization and a retaliatory war with
a strength in scope that the enemy had
never known the enemy will pay an
unprecedented price in the meantime I
call on all citizens of Israel to
strictly obey the instructions of the
army and instructions of the home
command we are in a war and we win it
Benjamin Netanyahu there many pictures
coming to us at the BBC and we're
verifying them for you this is a
bulldozer destroying the Border fence
between Israel and Gaza Palestinians are
chanting and pouring through gunman
reported to have opened fire as I was
talking about a little bit earlier on
the town of stot and reports of Israeli
military vehicles being attacked on the
Israeli side too with some taken back
across the border into Gaza now this
shows you here in this video Hamas
militants celebrating they opposing for
pictures on what is said to be an
Israeli army tank and I think we'll see
in a moment as well footage of what
appears to be this vehicle here an
Israeli military vehicle captured by the
militants Israeli journalist and orthog
Gideon Levy is in Tel Aviv which is
among the cities that's been attacked
and he told us about the scene that he
wok up to this
morning I don't remember T Aviv in this
situation for many years I just went out
to the streets the streets are totally
empty restaurants cafes everything is
locked down and there is a very heavy
feeling of of surprise of shock and of
fear from what is still expected to
happen when the first Rockets fall I was
jogging in the park the noise was
terrible and and ever since then T Aviv
went into a new phase first of all there
are many more Israeli kill than the
official number because things are still
very unclear and still are still going
on in many towns in the South so expect
much bigger number of of casualties it's
an
inevitable result of months and maybe
years of Israeli arrogance of the
feeling that Israel can do whatever it
wants and will never be taken
accountable and never pay any price for
the programs of the settlers in the West
Bank Beed and supported by the Israeli
Army for the arrest for the attacks for
the killings of innocent civilians in
the West Bank and also for violating the
status quo in the temple Mountain I just
got now a report that in sukot this
sukot there were five over 5,000 Jews
going in a very provocative way to the
temple mountain and and all those things
are feeding the fire and what is a
surprise is the capability of Hamas not
their intentions because nobody in
Israel had foreseen that they have such
impressive
capabilities in the South there are
still battles in certain towns and and
Villages settlements over at least T of
of Palestinian fighters who are inside
Israel and they have hostages this is
very very dedicated this situation in
the same time Kamas declared they have
35 captured I don't know if this number
is right but if they kidnapped 35
Israelis into Gaza it will be very hard
for Israel to release them and it will
be very hard for Israel to attack Gaza
now as long as 35 Israelis are in their
hands again I not sure about the figure
but this would Hamas
declares so and there are t of of
Israeli air Jets which are bombing Gaza
and and soon we will know more now there
is a lot of smoke about everything and
the full picture is not very clear right
now exess for journalist is quite
limited now to those places and we are
quite depending on the messages of the
of the army spokeperson who is not
always reliable in Israel
but there are also immediate questions
for example most of the troops that
should have been around Gaza were busy
with the settler celebrations in the
West Bank and if you become a a security
company of the settlers for all their
crazy celebrations in sukot and Gaza is
left with very few soldiers then those
things can happen and someone is
responsible for this and this is only
one example
for many questions that will arise now
but as I said it's too early to to judge
because we know to little Gaza is a cage
is the biggest prison in the world
nobody spoke about lifting The Siege and
you know people who live now 17 years in
a cage want to resist and if they have
the possibility they do it and I'm
surprised that they had a possibility
because the barrier I know the barrier
around Gaza billions of of dollars were
spent there to build this unbelievable
barrier under the surface and above the
surface with all kind of electronic
devices and finally you see that the
spirit of resistance is many times
stronger than anything else and they
broke it and penetrated into Israel
which is now shocked finally by the end
of the day by the end of the war the pal
will pay for it a unprecedented price
with this right-wing government I really
I'm quite scared from the Israeli
reaction people are talking already
about erasing whole neighborhoods in
Gaza people also talk about reconquering
Gaza and all this will lead to more
Bloodshed and to more despair